As a professor of finance I need to be well informed. As a Christian I also need to be well
informed as do all Christians. It's difficult not to take sides in politics. It's very difficult
because we are aware of the issues. I always really liked soccer. Ever since I was little I lived
in a poor area and soccer was what we used to do for fun. There was a journalist that I like to
keep up with. He would point out both the good and bad on all sides of politics. But when he
spoke up and pointed out only the bad side of a political party I did not like that. I live in the
downtown area of the city. There is where the largest political demonstrations take place. People
from this area are really into politics. They have definite opinions. And even though I always
knew that we must remain neutral I secretly approved of the demonstrations. On the outside I wasn't
jumping up and down or cheering but on the inside I was saying come on let's win. It was all about
the desire, the crowd, the pride of your team having the most victories or the most trophies.
I used to rationalize saying I was created in Jehovah's image and Jehovah is a just God.
What was speaking was my sense of justice. I thought neutrality was shown through actions and not
through what I felt. The April 2016 watchtower has interesting information regarding neutrality.
Being neutral means that you do not consider yourself better than others. Because in God's
sight all people are equal. After studying the article I realized that I needed to make changes.
I was not being neutral so I read the article again. I prayed to Jehovah. I said to him that I
knew it was if he were speaking to me. The magazine really touched me deeply. I remember reading the
article at least three times that evening. I was really surprised. I realized how far off I was
from what God wanted me to be on the inside. The second situation mentioned in the article has to
do with news reports in the media. The article even suggests that we limit our intake of the news
that we watch related to politics. There was another phrase that really moved me. It said,
even if we don't march with protesters might we be with them in spirit? Yes, I was with them.
Yes, there were several phrases in that article that were written just for me.
When I cut back watching so many news reports and I had to, this helped me to have self-control when
I spoke to others at work. When workmates mentioned something that was in the news,
I didn't have anything to say since I hadn't seen it. I didn't know about it. A workmate would say,
did you see that so-and-so said this and that someone else made a statement? I would say,
no, I didn't see it. And that was the end of the conversation. The article mentions Romans 10-12,
which says that Jehovah is Lord over all of us, that there's no difference between Jew and Greek.
The Jehovah, it's not important if my country has five or six titles, or if it won or lost the world cup.
To Jehovah, all people are equal. I took a piece of paper, just a simple piece of paper,
and I wrote on it the four key points that the article talks about.
Four key points that will help us dream a neutral. I keep it in my purse, that way I can always
read it at work. I like watching soccer. It's fun. I still watch it on TV. I still play soccer with
my friends at Bethel, but I've made an effort to change. Little by little, I've managed to put
soccer in its proper place. This helps me to keep pride and nationalism from getting the best of me.
I learned from this article not to express opinions about politics, that has to come from deep
inside. If I'm convinced that God's kingdom is the best solution and that there's nothing that
comes even close, remaining neutral will come naturally, but I can't let my guard down.
I really enjoy studying articles from the Watch Tower, especially those dealing with practical
matters. They help me see the Bible as if it were a mirror. It shows me where I can improve.
Following Council and making the changes suggested in the article has helped me to speak with
a conviction that only the kingdom can solve mankind's problems.